The word Genesis means beginnings or origin, and that's very significant because if you study this book, and we're just going to highlight a few things in the Torah or in the law, but if you study Genesis, you'll find that this book is the book that describes how the world began. A worldview has been given to us that eludes the minds of those that deny the book of Genesis as being from God. Those who are proud or humanistic or the so-called agnostics and atheists don't understand how the world began, but we have an understanding because God has revealed it to us in this book. But Genesis tells us how mankind began, how the family began through Adam and Eve. This book shows us how sin began in the Garden of Eden. It describes how government began through Noah. Genesis describes how the world's nations began through Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And the book shows us how the Jewish nation began through Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. If you study the book of Genesis, you'll find that the beginning of the salvation story, the story of God and man, sin and grace, wrath and mercy, covenant and redemption also are found throughout the book of Genesis. So a great foundational book here is the book of beginnings. And I believe that our theological understanding of doctrine builds on the historical facts that are given in the book of Genesis. But you notice in verse 1, the Bible says, in the beginning, God. God is the subject of this book. He's the focus of the entire Bible. It is no accident that the Lord is the subject of the very first sentence of the Bible, because God is what it's all about. Life is not about the things God has made. Life is about the creator, the one who gave life. And God does not spend any time proving himself in this book. He just asserts himself. He does not argue for his existence, but rather, he boldly states his existence. And I think that this truth is instructive to us regarding our defense of the faith. We don't need to prove the existence of God to anyone. God has already done a good job of doing that. He has made himself known by virtue of creation and conscience. When it comes to apologetics, I'm a presuppositionalist. I presuppose that all men, no matter where they live, understand, at least in a basic sense, that God exists. Whether or not they will admit it, I believe that all people know that God exists. But as Romans 1 says, they suppress that knowledge in unbelief. There are no atheists in foxholes, as it has been said. And so in one verse, in verse 1, this one verse summarizes the whole chapter, and that is God made everything. And perhaps there has been more discussion, more debate, more people arguing and controversy over this book than any other book in the Bible. Genesis has been under attack, because it is the foundation upon which the rest of the Bible is based. And I don't think this is a myth. I think it's fact. This is the way God did it. God spoke, and creation came into being. In Genesis 1.1, this verse teaches us that there's a point at which time began in the beginning. Not the beginning of eternity. Not the beginning of paradise, or the third heaven, or the abode of God. But the beginning of the created universe, the Earth's globe, the sky, and outer space. Everything in this verse shows us something about God. First of all, it shows us that there was time in the beginning, space, the heavens were made, matter, the Earth, force, the spirit of God is mentioned in verse 2, and then motion, describing how the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. So the beginning of the five basic scientific realities in the physical universe are mentioned in this one verse of scripture. Time, space, matter, force, and motion. But you know, until God spoke, nothing existed. Today, we are living in a bubble of time, which had its beginning in Genesis 1.1. And although God is not bound by time, as with God, one day is as 1,000 years, and 1,000 years are as one day, God has chosen to create time and to allow the temporal creation to exist during a limited time frame. Of course, we know there's coming a time when Jesus will return, the millennial kingdom will be established. And after that 1,000 year rule and reign of Christ, time shall be no more. The former things shall be passed away, and eternity future will continue. But as we know it, this is a unique bubble of time that you and I are living in. And the Lord put this into existence. Now, what I would like to do today, as we talk about God's creative activity and making everything, is to show you and to demonstrate from scripture that when the Bible says God created the heaven and the earth, that it was particularly the second person of the Godhead, Jesus Christ, who did it all. Jesus is creator. It is not explicitly stated in verse 1. But as I will show you in this verse and in several other verses in Genesis, but also in other Old Testament scripture and New Testament scripture, Jesus is indeed the one who is described here as God who created the heaven and the earth. Now, this is very important, because we believe that Jesus was not a mere man. We don't believe he was a prophet only. We believe that he is God Almighty. And by showing him to be creator, we can substantiate that fact and be encouraged to trust him. And that's what it's all about. It's trusting Jesus. If I can know that he is creator, then that builds confidence in him. And I am not ashamed of him, because I know he's not merely a man who was born in Bethlehem and walked the streets of Jerusalem, but he is God Almighty. And I will have great confidence in him if I come to understand this. So I hope that today's message will be an encouragement to you. Now, just to tell you what's been going on in my head, I was ready to jump to Genesis 3.15, which we'll get to soon, and talk about that promise, the promise of the seed of the woman that would crush the head of the serpent. I wanted to get there, but you know what? The Lord just said, you know, you've got to back up a little bit. Because there is something here in the first chapter of Genesis that I couldn't just give a brief explanation of it. But I wanted to park on it for a day, because I believe that this is foundational to our understanding of Jesus in the Old Testament, that he is found in this very first verse of the Bible. And this is going to build our confidence in him. So in Genesis 1.1, and by the way, as we think about, oh, she'll be back, I hope. In Genesis 1.1, I want us to see, first of all, that the word translated God is the Hebrew word Elohim. And the plural name Elohim, by the way, on a Hebrew word, when you have an eme ending, that eme ending on the end of a Hebrew word is plural. And I believe that's significant. Sometimes in the Bible, you'll find that God's name is abbreviated to El, El, meaning the strong one, the mighty one. But in Genesis 1.1, the word Elohim is found. And again, that eme ending is a plural word, a plural noun. And so I contend that the plural name Elohim allows for the claim that Jesus Christ took part in creation. It doesn't prove it, but it allows for it. You see, if I'm going to substantiate my claim that Jesus took part in creation, I, first of all, appeal to this word Elohim, which occurs 2,500 times in the Old Testament. And as I said, it refers to God as the strong one, the mighty God. And the plurality of that noun is significant. Now, we as Christians understand that God is a triune being. This is what we understand from the Bible, that God is a trinity. Even though the word trinity doesn't occur in the Bible, the concept of the trinity is all throughout the Bible. And we're going to show that to you in the weeks and months ahead. But the concept of the triunity of God, that God is three in one, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, not three gods. One God who has manifested himself in the person of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is found here, I believe implicitly, in verse 1 by the name Elohim. Now, some who deny the Trinity refer to the plural name for God when challenged to give an explanation. They would say, well, it refers to a plural of majesty, a plural of majesty, that God is so big and so awesome that he cannot be described merely in the singular, that you need a plural to describe the majesty of God. Well, I'm not going to say that that thinking is totally invalid, but God is not merely a majestic God. God in scripture has revealed himself, as we will see, as a triune being. And the scripture even substantiates that God the Father created everything. Revelation 4.11 says, thou are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou has created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. We will see today that all things were made also by the Son of God in John 1, in Colossians 1, in Hebrews 1. But did you know that the Bible states in the Hebrew scriptures that the Holy Spirit is creator? It says in Psalm 104, verse 30, thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created, and thou renew
