The word Genesis means beginnings or origin, and that's very significant because if you study this book, and we're just going to highlight a few things in the Torah or in the law, but if you study Genesis, you'll find that this book is the book that describes how the world began. A worldview has been given to us that eludes the minds of those that deny the book of Genesis as being from God. Those who are proud or humanistic or the so-called agnostics and atheists don't understand how the world began, but we have an understanding because God has revealed it to us in this book. But Genesis tells us how mankind began, how the family began through Adam and Eve. This book shows us how sin began in the Garden of Eden. It describes how government began through Noah. Genesis describes how the world's nations began through Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And the book shows us how the Jewish nation began through Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. If you study the book of Genesis, you'll find that the beginning of the salvation story, the story of God and man, sin and grace, wrath and mercy, covenant and redemption also are found throughout the book of Genesis. So a great foundational book here is the book of beginnings. And I believe that our theological understanding of doctrine builds on the historical facts that are given in the book of Genesis.

But you notice in verse 1, the Bible says, in the beginning, God. God is the subject of this book. He's the focus of the entire Bible. It is no accident that the Lord is the subject of the very first sentence of the Bible because God is what it's all about. Life is not about the things God has made. Life is about the creator, the one who gave life. And God does not spend any time proving himself in this book. He just asserts himself. He does not argue for his existence, but rather, he boldly states his existence. And I think that this truth is instructive to us regarding our defense of the faith. We don't need to prove the existence of God to anyone. God has already done a good job of doing that. He has made himself known by virtue of creation and conscience. When it comes to apologetics, I'm a presuppositionalist. I presuppose that all men, no matter where they live, understand, at least in a basic sense, that God exists. Whether or not they will admit it, I believe that all people know that God exists. But as Romans 1 says, they suppress that knowledge in unbelief. There are no atheists in foxholes, as it has been said. And so in one verse, in verse 1, this one verse summarizes the whole chapter, and that is God made everything. And perhaps there has been more discussion, more debate, more people arguing and controversy over this book than any other book in the Bible. Genesis has been under attack because it is the foundation upon which the rest of the Bible is based. And I don't think this is a myth. I think it's fact. This is the way God did it. God spoke, and creation came into being. In Genesis 1.1, this verse teaches us that there's a point at which time began in the beginning. Not the beginning of eternity. Not the beginning of paradise, or the third heaven, or the abode of God. But the beginning of the created universe, the Earth's globe, the sky, and outer space.

Everything in this verse shows us something about God. First of all, it shows us that there was time in the beginning, space, the heavens were made, matter, the Earth, force, the spirit of God is mentioned in verse 2, and then motion, describing how the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. So the beginning of the five basic scientific realities in the physical universe are mentioned in this one verse of scripture. Time, space, matter, force, and motion. But you know, until God spoke, nothing existed. Today, we are living in a bubble of time, which had its beginning in Genesis 1.1. And although God is not bound by time, as with God, one day is as 1,000 years, and 1,000 years are as one day, God has chosen to create time and to allow the temporal creation to exist during a limited time frame. Of course, we know there's coming a time when Jesus will return, the millennial kingdom will be established. And after that 1,000 year rule and reign of Christ, time shall be no more. The former things shall be passed away, and eternity future will continue. But as we know it, this is a unique bubble of time that you and I are living in. And the Lord put this into existence.

Now, what I would like to do today, as we talk about God's creative activity and making everything, is to show you and to demonstrate from scripture that when the Bible says God created the heaven and the earth, that it was particularly the second person of the Godhead, Jesus Christ, who did it all. Jesus is creator. It is not explicitly stated in verse 1. But as I will show you in this verse and in several other verses in Genesis, but also in other Old Testament scripture and New Testament scripture, Jesus is indeed the one who is described here as God who created the heaven and the earth. Now, this is very important because we believe that Jesus was not a mere man. We don't believe he was a prophet only. We believe that he is God Almighty. And by showing him to be creator, we can substantiate that fact and be encouraged to trust him. And that's what it's all about. It's trusting Jesus. If I can know that he is creator, then that builds confidence in him. And I am not ashamed of him because I know he's not merely a man who was born in Bethlehem and walked the streets of Jerusalem, but he is God Almighty. And I will have great confidence in him if I come to understand this. So I hope that today's message will be an encouragement to you.

Now, just to tell you what's been going on in my head, I was ready to jump to Genesis 3.15, which we'll get to soon, and talk about that promise, the promise of the seed of the woman that would crush the head of the serpent. I wanted to get there, but you know what? The Lord just said, you know, you've got to back up a little bit. Because there is something here in the first chapter of Genesis that I couldn't just give a brief explanation of it. But I wanted to park on it for a day because I believe that this is foundational to our understanding of Jesus in the Old Testament, that he is found in this very first verse of the Bible. And this is going to build our confidence in him.

So in Genesis 1.1, and by the way, as we think about, oh, she'll be back, I hope. In Genesis 1.1, I want us to see, first of all, that the word translated God is the Hebrew word Elohim. And the plural name Elohim, by the way, on a Hebrew word, when you have an eme ending, that eme ending on the end of a Hebrew word is plural. And I believe that's significant. Sometimes in the Bible, you'll find that God's name is abbreviated to El, El, meaning the strong one, the mighty one. But in Genesis 1.1, the word Elohim is found. And again, that eme ending is a plural word, a plural noun. And so I contend that the plural name Elohim allows for the claim that Jesus Christ took part in creation. It doesn't prove it, but it allows for it. You see, if I'm going to substantiate my claim that Jesus took part in creation, I, first of all, appeal to this word Elohim, which occurs 2,500 times in the Old Testament. And as I said, it refers to God as the strong one, the mighty God. And the plurality of that noun is significant. Now, we as Christians understand that God is a triune being. This is what we understand from the Bible, that God is a trinity. Even though the word trinity doesn't occur in the Bible, the concept of the trinity is all throughout the Bible. And we're going to show that to you in the weeks and months ahead. But the concept of the triunity of God, that God is three in one, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, not three gods. One God who has manifested himself in the person of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is found here, I believe implicitly, in verse 1 by the name Elohim.

Now, some who deny the Trinity refer to the plural name for God when challenged to give an explanation. They would say, well, it refers to a plural of majesty, a plural of majesty, that God is so big and so awesome that he cannot be described merely in the singular, that you need a plural to describe the majesty of God. Well, I'm not going to say that that thinking is totally invalid, but God is not merely a majestic God. God in scripture has revealed himself, as we will see, as a triune being. And the scripture even substantiates that God the Father created everything. Revelation 4.11 says, thou are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou has created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. We will see today that all things were made also by the Son of God in John 1, in Colossians 1, in Hebrews 1. But did you know that the Bible states in the Hebrew scriptures that the Holy Spirit is creator? It says in Psalm 104, verse 30, thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created, and thou renewest the face of the earth. Job

 33, verse 4, the Spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life. Breath, here is that word ruach, which is often translated spirit. The Spirit of God has given us life. And so who created everything? Well, God did. And God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit, the three persons of the triune Godhead, were all involved in creation. And if I was to distinguish the work of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, I would say the Father planned it, the Son performed it, the Spirit preserved it, and hovers over it, and works within creation. As a matter of fact, nobody in this room would be born again apart from the working of the Holy Spirit. He is at work today.

And so in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. The word create, of course, is the Hebrew word bara, which is used in scripture exclusively for the activity of God. You see, humans can make things. There's a word for that in Hebrew, asah. Humans can make things. Humans can form things, yasar. We can form things. We can mold things. Humans can build things, bana. Again, the Hebrew describing building. And people can do that. But only God creates things. Only God makes things out of nothing. As the Latin is, ex nihilo. God created everything out of nothing without any pre-existing materials. By the way, did you like the doors when you came in this week? We're thankful for the men who did that work for us, and the materials, and so forth. But you know, those men needed materials to work with, aluminum and glass being primary. But you know, they used materials to make something wonderful. You know, when God created, he didn't need any pre-existing materials. But rather, as the scripture says in Hebrews 11.3, through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. God did not use pre-existing materials to create the universe. That is the assumption of evolutionary thinking, matter existed, and there was this explosion, as it were. And out of that explosion came a well-ordered universe like we have today. Well, we don't believe that. We believe that's the fairy tale. The fairy tale is that matter is eternal, and matter has always been there. And because of a happening to matter, an explosion, we have what we have today. Well, that's the fairy tale. The reality is that matter is not eternal. Rather, the creator is eternal. And he chose to make things without things which do appear, without pre-existing materials. Psalm 33.6 says, by the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. And so God simply spoke, and it came into existence. And if you read the whole chapter here, you'll find that it says repeatedly, and God said, and it was so. And God said, and it was good. And God created by the instantaneous power of his word.

Now, God must be awesome to do what he has done. The heavens declare the glory of God. The firmament shows his handiwork. Again, there's the example of the sombrero galaxy, just one of the many galaxies that exist, made up of 300 billion stars, 50,000 light years from one end to the other. Just amazing, the vastness of the universe. But God made it all. And therefore, God owns it all. The earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, the world. And they that dwell therein, from everything from the ocean waters to the springs of water to the birds of the air and the fish of the sea, God has created everything with such precision and beauty and balance and order that an intelligent design gives evidence to an intelligent designer. He created the mammals. And just the variety and the beauty of God's creation shows us God is awesome, that he's able to do this by simply saying the word. His power made it all, and his wisdom made it all just right. In the six days of creation, on day one, he made the heavens and the earth with light, according to verses 1 through 5. He created then the canopy, the expanse in the sky, verses 6 through 8 on day two. On day three, he created the dry land and the seas and the vegetation. That's verses 9 through 13. On day four, he created the sun and the moon and the stars, permanent lights in our universe. And then on day five, he created sea life and birds. But day six, he made the animals, the reptiles, insects, and then the crown of his creation, mankind, male and female. And so God made it all by his power, by his word. And so the plural name Elohim allows for the claim that Jesus Christ took part in creation. It doesn't prove it, but it allows for that possibility.

Secondly, the plural pronouns us and our, also in Genesis 1, allow for the claim that Jesus took part in creation. Look at the text there in Genesis 1, verse 26, where he says, and God said, let us make man in our image after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air and over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. Did you notice something peculiar here about the grammar? He says in verse 26, God says, let us make man in our image after our likeness. Now that's interesting, because something is happening here that people have perhaps wondered about. Who is he talking to when he says, let us make man in our image? Well, I don't believe he's talking about the angels. And I don't believe he's talking to the angels, for the angels had no part in God's creation. Angels never made anything. And so the us here cannot refer to finite angelic beings. He says, let us make man in our image. But then if you skip down to verse 27, so God created man in his own image, the singular there, his being singular. And so you have plural pronouns, God saying, let us make man. And then he says, so God made man in his own image and in his own likeness. To comment on that sense of what it means, the image of God in man, when he talks about creating man in his own image, I believe it points to people as having personality features that are reproductions of God's spiritual, intellectual, and moral qualities. It does not mean that we are the same as God, but it means that God created people with similarities in pattern and in model. And we bear the image of God at least in three senses. Number one, we are personal. God is personal. Man is like God in that he is a person with personality. A person is someone who possesses self-consciousness, self-determination, intellect, emotion, and will. And God has that, and he created people with that feature of personality. I think another sense in which man bears the image of God is that man is like God in that he has a spirit. We know God is spirit. Those that worship God must worship him in spirit and in truth. Now, God created people with a spirit, and that distinguishes us from the animal realm because animals don't have a spirit in the sense that we do. And then man is like God in that he has a moral nature. Man has a basic innate comprehension of right and wrong, and God created us with a moral nature. And no matter where you go in the world, you will find that there are people who have an understanding of the difference between right and wrong. And God built that within us. And so we are created in the image of God. However, when Adam and Eve sinned against the Lord, that image of God in man was marred. It was affected, but it was not obliterated. It wasn't taken away. And so we believe that since people bear the image of God, people have a life that has dignity, that is to be respected and honored and protected. Because James 3.9 talks about how we're made in the image of God, and therefore, we ought to respect people.

But I want to say also that this is, for those who have a biblical understanding of mankind or anthropology, we understand that all people are created equal, and that if you fall under the category of a human being, you are a person created or procreated in the image and likeness of God. And regardless of skin color, regardless of ethnicity, we do not believe in racism. We believe that all people are created in the image and likeness of God. And by the way, as I've often said, the true essence of a human is their spirit. A spirit has no color. Therefore, we should never be prejudiced or racist regarding people of a different skin color. That is foolishness. So all people are created in the image and likeness of God. And so the crown of creation, mankind, was made on the sixth day of creation. And last, perhaps because we are the most special of God's creation, and we were made in his image and likeness to rule over the rest of creation. And Psalm 8 says this in verse 4. What is man that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man that thou visitest him? For thou has made him a little lower than the angels, and has crowned him with glory and honor. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands, and has put all things under his feet, all sheep and

 oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field, the fowl of the air, the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. O Lord our God, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. So God made us in his own image and gave people a responsibility to have dominion over his creation, to rule over, to have control over, or stewardship over the elements and species of the world.

And then in verse 27, it says, so God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. So God created Adam and Eve on the sixth day of creation. And it's interesting. Again, I haven't proven anything to you yet, but the words here indicate that everything was made by a God whose name is plural. Everything was made by a God who refers to himself as us and our. But I want you to notice in Isaiah 44 and verse 24 what the scripture says. Isaiah 44, 24 says, thus saith the Lord. Now that word Lord is the Hebrew word Yahweh. Whenever you see all capital letters in the King James translation, you know that the original word was Yahweh or Jehovah in its pronunciation in English. So thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, and he that formed thee from the womb. I am the Lord that maketh all things, that stretched forth the heavens alone, that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself. Now according to that verse, did God have any help in his creative activity? None. He says, I made it all by myself. Do you see that? So we have the statement Elohim made it all, plural name for God. Let us make man in our image. Cannot be referring to angels because God says that he made it alone by himself. He spread abroad the earth by himself. So the references to plurality in the creation account need to be reconciled with the claim that God alone created all things. He did not employ the use of angelic creatures in his creation. By the way, angels can't create. They can't even procreate. I mean, we have one up on the angels. Angels don't give birth to other angels. They were all created without the ability to marry and bear children. Even Jesus brought that out, that once we're in heaven, we will be like the angels. There won't be any more procreation in heaven. And so angels had no part in it.

So who is it that is responsible for creation? Well, this is a mystery that has been revealed to us in New Testament scripture. And I want you to see today, as we look at point number four, several different New Testament writers give the answer to the mystery of the creation account. How did this happen? Who is that one who made everything, that refers to himself as Elohim, and let us make man in our image? Well, the testimony of John gives the answer. In John 1, 1, and you know these verses, in the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. Now, who is John referring to here? Well, if you look at verse 14, he gives the answer. And the word became flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. And so Jesus is the fulfillment of that statement, in the beginning was the word, the word became flesh, the word became man, and dwelt among us. So look at what the Bible says. Jesus is responsible for creation, and he is identified as the word of God. In Revelation 19, 13, his name is called the word of God. A word is composed of letters. If we call Jesus the word, I want you to know when it comes to letters, he's the alpha and omega, the beginning and the end. Words communicate. Jesus was God's communication to man, according to Hebrews 1, 1 and 2. Jesus is the ultimate communication of God to man. That's why he said to Doubting Thomas, he who has seen me hath seen the Father. Jesus reveals God. He communicated God to man. Words communicate. Not only that, words command. Jesus, by speaking the word only, gave orders that were carried out with swiftness and accuracy, whether it was commanding demons to leave or commanding the waters to be calm on the raging sea. All he had to do is give the word. Words create. And Jesus's words did not merely create impressions. They created reality. As Hebrews 11, 3 says, through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God so that the things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. And so God simply spoke and creation came into being. He's called the word, the logos, because he is the revealer of God. He is the outward expression of God, the manifestation of God. When Jesus speaks, God speaks. When he does something, God does that. Every major act that God the Father ever accomplished, he accomplished through the instrumentality of his son.

I've stated this fact before, but God created through his son, as we're looking at today. God provided redemption through his son, Colossians 1, 14. God sustains creation by his son, Colossians 1, 17. And God will one day judge through his son, John 5, 22. For the Father judgeth no man, but have committed all judgment unto the Son. And so Jesus is the one who does everything that God does. That's why he's called the arm of the Lord. And he is the right arm of the Lord. Jesus is the logos. He expresses God by his powerful acts of creation and revelation, salvation and judgment. Do you notice in our verse it says, in the beginning was the word? That's the same New Testament equivalent as Genesis 1, 1. In the beginning, God. Jesus was there in the beginning. He is eternal. The word beginning points to the time when all forms of substance and life had their origin. And so if in the beginning of everything that was made, the word was there, this implies that he was there before the beginning. He was there before anything was made. He existed before time, space, and matter. He is eternal. The word is everlasting. He says, in the beginning was the word. And the word was with God. And the word was God, the exact word order in the Greek. And God was the word. The same was in the beginning with God. He was with God the Father. All things were made by him or by means of him. And without him was not anything made that was made. So according to this last clause here, how many things were made outside of Jesus? Nothing. Nothing has been made outside of the Son of God according to John 1. Jesus made it all. He is the logos of God who spoke the rhema of God and created the universe with his powerful word. No wonder he said, the hour is coming when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and those who hear shall live. Jesus merely speaks reality into existence, including our future resurrection. He is powerful. He made everything by his word. And he sustains it by that same word. Psalm 33 6, by the word of the Lord, the heavens were made and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. And so he commanded and it was done. And it stood fast. And so John says, Jesus made it all. He's creator. Apart from him, nothing was made that has been made.

Look at the testimony of the writer of Hebrews. We don't know exactly who God used to pen the book of Hebrews, but we do know this, that book has the fingerprints of the inspiration of God. You've got to study it and read it. But in Hebrews 1 2, the Bible talking about Jesus in the context here says, God hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, that's the Lord Jesus, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he, God, made the worlds. And so how did God do it? He made everything by Jesus. Now, God rules the universe by means of his son. It says he appointed him heir of all things. What is an heir? An heir is the one to whom a father would leave his property. And Christ, after his resurrection and exaltation, became the heir of all things. All things, by the way, not some things. He is heir of all things. But then it says, by whom also he made the worlds. Now, that statement is powerful. Because we know God made everything, but he made it by means of the son of God. So if he made all things, not some things, who has the right over all these things? Who has the right? Ultimately, everything belongs to Jesus. Not just spiritual things, everything, whether it's material or immaterial. Even our body is his, 1 Corinthians 6 teaches. And so Jesus rules all because he made all. And it says, by whom he, God, made the worlds. And so again, God the father planned creation. The son of God performed it by the power of his word. And so how do I distinguish between the work of the father and the work of the son? I guess my best explanation would be the father is the architect, whereas the son of God is the builder. The father planned it. The son performed it. So God the father, perhaps, can be likened unto the general contractor, if you will. But Jesus is the actual construction worker. He is the one who made it all. And so God made the worlds. And by the way, the

 word worlds here encompasses not only the material world, but time and space as well. And so Jesus was involved in the creative process of the cosmos with its matter and its time and space. And so God made it all by means of Jesus, the carpenter.

Third, the testimony of Paul shows Jesus to be the maker of all things. In Colossians 1, it's referring to Jesus, who is the image of the invisible God. What that simply means is Jesus is the visible manifestation of the invisible God. To see him is to see God. He even said that. He who has seen me has seen the Father. So he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. Now, let me explain what this phrase means, the firstborn of every creature. It does not mean that Jesus is the first one born, OK? Matter of fact, who was the first one born? Cain. Cain was the firstborn of Adam and Eve. Abel would come later and would be murdered by his older brother. But you see, the firstborn of every creature is referring to a Hebrew expression that refers to the one who has the rights to the Father's property, the one who has the preeminence. It's a term of preeminence, not of origin. It does not describe Jesus as the first thing God created, which is the view of the Jehovah's Witnesses, that they believe that Jesus is the first among everything else that Jehovah God created. They believe that Jehovah God created Jesus. Well, that's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that he is from everlasting to everlasting, that he is the alpha and omega, the beginning and the end. He had no initial existence. He eternally existed in eternity past, and he will exist into the future. So what does that mean, firstborn? It means the preeminent one, the right to rule is his. And the very next statement shows us what he means by this.

So Jesus is the preeminent one, the firstborn. To give you the background to that word, as a general rule, the firstborn in the Hebrew home had the rights to the Father's property. And that's why you read about Jacob and Esau, and you find out that Esau sold his birthright to Jacob because that would give Jacob the control over the Father's property and give him the rights of the firstborn. And so when you hear that word, don't think of the one born first necessarily, but think of the one with the rights over the Father's property, the one with the right to rule, the right to the possessions. Now, the reason given here why Jesus has the right to rule over all of creation is the fact that he made all of creation. Notice the next statement. For by him were all things created. That's the reason why he is the firstborn, because by him all things were created. He made it all, therefore he has the right to rule over it all. That's the point. He has the right to rule over it as the firstborn of all creation, because he made all of creation. That's the thought here. By the way, if you ever look at a Bible produced by the Watchtower Society, you will find that they inject a word that is not found anywhere in the Greek. They say, for by him were all other things created. And they insert the word other, and there is no textual basis for that translation. But they don't want us to believe that Jesus is God who created all things, not just all other things, as if he was created and then he made everything else. No. Jesus is creator, period. And he says, for by him were all things created that are in heaven. What's in heaven? Well, the angels are in heaven, the cherubim, the seraphim, his beautiful paradise that he talks about, the third heaven, that are in earth. What's on the earth? Well, everything from the mountains, to the rivers, to the ocean, to the animals, to plant life, everything on earth. Whether it is visible, you can see it with your eyes, or whether it's invisible, you cannot see it. Even realities that exist in the invisible realm were made by Jesus. Of course, that would involve the spirit realm. Spirits are invisible. And there are other realities that we can't see that are there. Made by Jesus. Whether they be thrones, or positions of authority, or dominions, or principalities, or powers, you see, because all authority is ordained by God, particularly the Lord Jesus, all things were created by him and for him. And he is before all things. That means he pre-exists everything that has been made. And by him, all things consist or hold together. What a statement. Let me tell you. Did Paul invent this theology? Or did he get this from God? I want you to know that Paul was willing to die a martyr's death. He was willing to lose everything that he had as a Jewish rabbi. He was willing to give it all up and consider it done, because he came to realize Jesus is Lord. And he would face persecution and beatings, and then have his head chopped off because of his conviction that Jesus is God who made it all. I don't find sane people willing to give their life for something that they know is not true. But all of the apostles, really, were persecuted, and most of them faced martyr's deaths because they knew that this is real, that Jesus is Lord, and that he made everything. Jesus created everything, all beings, all things, all that is material, all that is immaterial, all laws, all governing authorities and powers, everything in heaven, including Michael the archangel and Gabriel, everything on planet Earth, from the beautiful islands of the Caribbean to every kind of plant and tree and fruit and vegetable, every animal, fish, reptile, and insect, and then the crown of creation, people. No wonder the elements obeyed his voice, and demons trembled in his presence and respected him because he is Lord of all, creator of all. It doesn't matter where we are in the world, creator of all. It doesn't matter where it is, its location, or what it is, its essence, or how it is. The powers that be, Jesus made it all. And isn't it interesting that when Jesus became a man, he worked as a carpenter? I always find that interesting. A fitting trade for the one who built the universe, yet what a humble trade. Let's talk about humiliation. What humility for the creator who spoke the world into existence to spend much of his 33 years on Earth using the simple tools of man and the elements of his own creation to construct with. But as I often have said, if he ever made a yoke for oxen, it would have been the best one ever made. He would have made impeccable things, perfect things with his craftsmanship.

But God made everything by means of Jesus Christ. The Bible says all things were made by him and for him. So he is both the beginner and the benefactor of creation. He is its goal and its source. He did it, he will be glorified by it. He is the author and the finisher, the architect and the owner. He did it all by himself and for himself. He made us for himself. He saved us for himself, that we would glorify him while we live. We're not on this Earth for ourselves. We're on this Earth for him, the Bible says. He made us for him. He made everything for him. So all of creation has as its goal the glory of Jesus, that he will be glorified. No wonder one day every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father, who will be glorified by the glory his son receives. Jesus is the creator of all. And as you notice in verse 17, and by him all things consist. That simply means he holds it all together. Everything stands together or is cohered in a unity by Jesus. He is the principle of cohesion in the universe. He is the unifying band who keeps the planets in place, the orbit of Earth consistent around the sun, the seasons he keeps consistent with spring, summer, winter and fall. He keeps that all regular. He keeps laws that govern this Earth intact like the law of gravity. And by the way, Jesus keeps nations from becoming unglued and people from destroying each other. Jesus holds it all together. By the way, one day he'll interrupt the present order of all things in the day of the Lord and send judgment upon the Earth. But I would say if you are having problems in your life or in your family, if Jesus holds everything together, if he holds the whole universe together, do you think if you called out to him and say, Lord, help me hold my marriage together, he could do that? Do you think if you called out to him and said, Lord, help me with my family, help me hold my life together, help me get my own life in order. Do you think Jesus could do that for us if we asked him to? Absolutely. That's the point of all of this. That if the Lord Jesus is the creator of everything, then certainly he can help us keep our life and family from erupting and exploding and becoming unglued.

So, in conclusion, since Jesus made it all, then I'm responsible to glorify and trust him. I should glorify him and I should trust him because I am his by virtue of creation and by virtue of redemption. Psalm 100 verse 3, Know ye that the Lord, he is God. It is he that hath made us and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Gil likes that sheep. So if a creator exists and his name is Jesus, the consequence of that is he knows me, he is superior to

 me, I am responsible to him, I will be held accountable by him, and I should live to glorify him and fulfill his purpose and will. And this implies that I am not the master of my life. I cannot live the way I want. I have to live the way he wants. If Jesus made it all, and I believe he did, then he has power over everything, authority over everything, sovereignty over everything, dominance over all, and he is preeminent, he is at the top of everything. This is my father's world. And who is Jesus? Well, the prophet said a virgin would conceive and bear a son, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. If Jesus be God, then he is to be feared and obeyed. We have no choice but to do his will and surrender our lives to him. But you know something? If this is true, and I believe it's true, I'd give my life for this. If this is true, that Jesus made it all, then we can surrender to him. And we can say, Lord, help me. I need you. I can't live this life without you. I need your power. I need you to hold things together. My life is becoming unraveled, but Lord, you can hold me together. Jesus will do that for you. Call out to him today. It's no problem for him. And that's his will. It's not his will that you perish. It's not his will that you be destroyed or that your family be destroyed. It's his will that you be blessed. Call out to him and ask the Lord Jesus, the creator of all things, to do his work in your life, in your home, and in everything you need help with. Call out to him today.